From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, all weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
shown on three 74. Recorded
live Thursday, May 30th, 2013. Support for
Hanselman it's. This provided by
Telerx offering the best in
developer tools and support online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklins.net
makers of gesture pack a
powerful gesture, recording and recognition
system for Microsoft connect for
windows developers details@gesturepak.com. In this
episode, Scott talks with dr.
Anthony Highland about hardrive energy
consumption. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes and on
the phone I've got dr.
Anthony . Thanks for coming
on the show. So Anthony
works for IBM research and
got his PhD in computer
science from Churchill college at
university of Cambridge. So you
spent some time overseas. Yeah,
w it was a wonderful
time. I graduated my undergrad
degree in computer engineering from
Georgia tech, and I was,
I was blessed and fortunate
enough to be one of
about 33 students selected as
Gates, Cambridge scholar to pursue
postgraduate work at the university
of Cambridge. So that's kind
of how I wound up
at Cambridge in and in
the computer science department had
a wonderful experience, met a
lot of great people, and
I think more than anything,
just got to see technology
and education from a different
culture perspective. And that was
just invaluable. Well, I, I
was reading your, your PhD
thesis and, you know, computer
engineering and computer science is
a big, big space. I
mean, that's probably why you
went into it. You have
a lot of choices about
things that you want to
get interested in, Right? That
was actually fairly interesting because
traditionally I would have looked
in the engineering department for
some of the things that
I was interested in, but
it turns out that's, that's
more lumped into the computer
science department. And luckily I
found the digital technology group
that really did a lot
of the hardcore applying the
computer science to actually building
things that imposed attacking things.
And that was, that was
what I enjoyed. Just getting
your hands dirty. It wasn't
enough just to do some
theory, write some equations and
write them program, but you
want to see something tangible.
You want to be able
to touch what you can,
you cannot create, and then
see how it works in
real life. And, and your,
your PhD thesis is called
an analysis of hard drive
energy consumption. And is, is
this really hardware and electronics,
or does this the bridge
between software and hardware? No,
it's, it's definitely hard drive
and electronics. So there was
a lot of reverse engineering,
black box type testing and
prototyping and experimenting on. So
I, I've got so many
stories and pictures of, of
systems and dish drives that
I've messed up because of
how I instrumented them. But
from the point of having
to create a custom power
measurement board, having all kinds
of wires coming out of
a, a PC that I
had laying on the floor,
and then writing the micro
benchmarks in the micro kernels
to actually test, to run
the control tests that I
needed to capture the measurements.
And then from those measurements,
you start to try to
model how the, how the
hard job operates. And then
you can kind of cross
reference that model with actual
running those tests on the
actual disc drive. And th
th I can read it,
but you can tell me
the essence of what is
the essence of your thesis.
What are you, what, what
did you feel it, you
effectively proved with this, The
stations? So among the major
contributions is I wrote a
dish drive simulator. So basically
given a block, trace the
simulator, lets you know, how
much energy that blocked trace
is going to consume. And
from that understanding of how
this drives, consume energy or
consume power, which, which is
energy over time, you get
to understand how you can
change the operating system interaction
with the district or reduce
power consumption. If that's what
you're interested in, turns out
that that performance and power
consumption walk hand in hand,
if you can improve the
performance, the energy consumption is,
is optimized as well. So
for, for desktop operating system,
I mean I'm sitting on
a desktop computer right now
and I've got a desktop
machine it's probably using, I
don't know, maybe 150 Watts
or more. It's probably burning
power left and right. I
know what heats up the
room. I probably don't care
about that. I might care
more on a laptop, but
in what environment would I
care so deeply about these
tiny, tiny micro Watts of
power? So it turns out
that your ride for, for
the average home desktop user,
you could care less about
how much or unless you're
an extreme somebody just trying
to conserve. You could for
the most part care less
about how much energy your,
your, your PC is consuming,
but in the desktop situation
where you've got a fixed
amount of energy in your
battery, because you don't want
to be plugged into the
wall at all times, you've
got to be a bit
smarter in terms of how
you choose to use your,
the, the, the energy. It's
a more precious resource. So
whether on a laptop, the
brightness of your display, or
you send your, your distracts
asleep when you're not using
it, if you're just reading
the webpage, you don't need
your disc drive to be
spinning at 7,200 RPM, but
whatever speed your disc drive
is, so you can kind
of spin it down and
save significant amount of energy.
So it's things like that,
but it turns out the
problem is more exaggerated in
a data center. So if
you're a Google, if you're
an Amazon, if you're a
Rackspace, if you're an Apple
or if you're a Microsoft
and you've got these, these
humongous data centers that, that
data, and they've got so
many districts spending for the
most part, disc drives, mechanical
disk drives are the way
you achieve the capacity that
we need for data. Granted
things are changing in terms
of trends, but does drive
energy consumption when you exaggerated,
it can become an issue
that you can be concerned.
So that does that mean
then if I could cut,
you know, fractions of a
percent off of my energy
consumption that that would literally
add up into actual money
that I could measure, that
would be significant enough to
tell a boss that we
should change X, Y, Z.
And we're going to save
a couple of hundred grand
on this data center. Almost
definitely there there's been so
much research and, and power
savings and energy savings when
it comes to the data
center. And you can look
at processor, you can look
at dish drives. You can
look at network just in,
in almost any field, whether
it be the actual hardware
or even now just middleware
and software application. You've got
people that are looking at
how do you make this
more energy efficient? I would
have thought as a layman
that the, the energy expended
by a mechanical hard drive
was this, the moving around
of the mechanical parts. I
mean, literally the motors, but
in your thesis, you, you
propose that the energy that
the electronics on the drive
consumer is just as important,
Right? So they, they consume
a more significant amount of
the total energy than one
would initially think. However, it's
still fairly small relative to
how much the mechanical parts.
So you're the platter spin
the motor and the actuator
arm. The electronic still consume
much less than that, but
at the same time, it's,
it's, it's more than you
would think for an electronic
component or an electronic part
that doesn't have any moving
parts, how much energy is
consuming. And some of that
may be proprietary to the
disc drive manufacturer. Some of
it may be due to
inefficiency because a lot of
things we find out is
when, when these particular parts
or components were first manufactured
and engineered w we assume
that we have infinite amounts
of power and energy, but,
but that turns out not
to be the case. So
you can stumble upon parts
that were on optimized or
ill optimized for situation where
you have a scarce resource
such as energy. Hmm. So
when you're, when you're you
spending energy in a hard
drive, you're doing the electronics
work, and then you're, the
electronics works, turns into the
physical movement of, of the
actuator. And, you know, work
happens in that actual molecule
will start moving around. You're
moving that arm to find
the data that you requested
and the, where the data
is on the disc actually
affects the energy that is
expended as well. Yes. So
you can look at placement
algorithms to help further reduce
energy. That is correct. Is
that, is that so important
That you would want to
build that into like the
file system driver? Like might
you say that this file
system is more energy efficient
than that one? Well, that's
actually what people do. So
yes, because energy and performance
kind of walk, lock step
the areas on the outer,
most portions of the magnetic
platter. So just take a
step back. The disc drive
is made up of these
platters that for effectively, just
think about three pancakes. And
there's like a stick in
the middle of the pancakes
and the pancakes just spin
around. So outermost edges of
the platter, that's where you
can read and write data.
You're the fastest. And this
is research that's been known
for 20, 30 years now.
And what happens in a
lot of places is this
technique called short stroke. So
effectively you, you limit yourself
to maybe the outer, most
25% of the dish drive,
because that's where you're getting
the performance that you need
for your particular workload. And
you granite you're killing and
wasting so much of your
capacity. You're wasting 75% of
your capacity, but that's the
only way you can get
the performance that you need.
And as a result, that's
going to be the most
energy or that, that, that,
that particular configuration is going
to consume the least amount
of energy across any, any
storage array that you may
have. So if I were
an architect on a system
that was going to be
performing some, some workload, some
large amount of, of, of
work or some continuous amount
of work at what level
does the response to, what
do I, as the architect
know that the responsibility lies?
Is that something that my,
my developers are going to
know about, and we're going
to be able to coerce
the data to live at
a certain place, or is
that at the driver level
or somewhere above that, That's
one of those arguments that
that's going to go on
for the foreseeable future. As
long as we still have
the current programmer designer, developer
division of labor, there are
some people that like to
worry about those things. There
are other people that could
care less about those things
and want somebody else to
handle that for me right
now, the majority of the
work that I've seen, it's
been kind of the, the
designer and the dish drive
the dish driver responsibility to
manage the layout. However, if
there is a developer that,
that knows what he's doing,
that knows the ins and
outs of his application better
than a designer could then
obviously that developer is going
to want more control over
how data's laid out on
this, whether it's it's a
database developer or something like
that, you just don't know.
But again, that goes back
and forth depending on the
particular use case. Yeah. That
gets me wondering that like
D does an Oracle or
SQL server know somewhere in
the code, or is it
trying to optimize for, for
the way the data is
laid out, taking into consideration
performance and then power consumed,
which might be conflicting priorities.
Exactly. It's one of those
things where you, you just
don't know, there may be
some workloads that placement optimization
is much easier and a
more tractable tractable problem than
others. And you just have
to optimize for the majority
case. The amount of, of
information is being transferred as
well, will affect power, Right?
So looking at the platters
and the way the mechanics
of the disc drive operate,
understanding how much data you
want to transfer is going
to affect the operation. So
this gets us into sequential
operation versus random operation. Obviously
mechanical dish drives really, really
stink it up when you
talk about random IO operation
versus sequential, because once the
head gets in place the
disrespecting at 7,200 RPM, so
you're pretty much getting everything
for free, but as soon
as you have to start
moving their head around, that's
when you start incurring those
mechanical penalties and everything kind
of just goes to pot.
So, so this is where
being able to run everything
in memory, or this is
where solid state drives really
come into play. And you
really see the benefit and
the value of their operation,
of them being solid state
memory devices. W so when
you were doing this testing,
you had a board and
you would, you would go
and basically grab some drives
from all different brands, all
different sizes. And then you
would use this custom board
that you guys designed to
do the measurement setup. Does,
did you discover that the
differences between drives were very
different or is it all
basically the same For the
most part? It, it was
fairly similar. There seemed to
be some differentiation when you
look at prefetching and, and
how, how the, the, the,
on this cash operate. And
there, there's also something that
that's called zone bit recording
and, and I won't get
into all the details. I'll
save that well with PDF
search, but in, in zone
bit recording. So again, you
think about the, the, the
platters being some pancakes kind
of stacked up with a,
with a spindle going right
down the middle. And there,
there are, if you think
about a race track or
track and field track where
you've got certain lanes, so
on the platters, you've got
essentially something very analogous, two
lanes, and each of those
lanes gets a certain number
of bits that can be
written in that lane. And
obviously the outer lanes are
effectively longer than the inner
lanes. So they're spinning faster
than exactly. So you effectively
say this instead of doing
different numbers of bits per
lane on a per lane
basis, you say, well, this
of five lanes gets the
same number of fits. And
so that's kind of zoned
bit recording. And so that
number decreases as you move
towards the center of those
platters and the way those
zones are created, and the
way those zones are allocated
a certain number of bits
that that type of proprietary
nature is, is what you
see differentiation between the manufacturers
and the vendors, because that
really goes into how they
get the density that they
can get, how they get
the sequential bandwidth, et cetera,
et cetera. I see. Okay.
So that's, that's their differentiator.
I mean, they, we know
that the disc spins and
we know that the disc
has a general layout of
sectors, but for the most
part, they decide how dense
they want to pack the
data, what kind of errors
they want to tolerate. Exactly.
So you can imagine though,
those higher level decisions don't
necessarily affect the overall energy
consumption as much, which is
why you see a fairly
consistent model that we were
able to create a media.
Okay. So then calling back
to the, you called it
short, short stroke, short stroking,
or you're keeping on the
outer tracks. Yes. The ones
that spin faster. Yes. Ah,
okay. So by using just
the outer edge, you're getting,
you're getting that kind of
free little burst of speed
because that's the part that's
spinning the fastest. And presumably
you could pack the bits
as tightly as that hard
drives firmware would allow you
to Exactly. There you go.
You got it. Oh, Okay.
I'll get my honorary PhD
now. Huh. It's crazy how
you think about what you
know now, and then you
look back to how much
work and how much blood,
sweat, and tears went into
actually doing all this research
and really uncovering it all.
It's, it's really amazing and
fascinating, but that's, that's the
beauty of research. And, and
again, that's the beauty of,
of doing the work yourself
and getting your hands dirty
is you get to synthesize
the knowledge in your own
way. And, and that's why
you, you never can get
tired of talking about it.
Well, it must have been
fascinating for you to kind
of you're sitting on this
and you're thinking about the
decisions that were made in
hard drive design, you know,
20, 30 years before and
even longer and thinking about,
well, gosh, if they'd known
this, what would they have
done differently? Yeah. Th there
you go. One of the
things I, I just can't
stop thinking about is the,
the three and a half
minutes, this form, back to
that, that you can buy
what up with a two
terabyte drive in that's what
they used to sell 40
megabytes and people were happy
to have 40 megabytes. So
Yeah, my first, my first
hard drive was a 40
megabyte MFM hard drive. And
those hard drives would develop
this strange kind of symbiotic
relationship with their condition controller.
The disc controller would have
errors and cause errors such
that the, you couldn't separate
the drive from the controller
because DRI the controller was
separate and it had a
personality, it had errors that
were inherent to it. And
if you ever tried to,
to switch controller with a
hard drive, they wouldn't, they
would reject each other at
like an Oregon rejecting being
rejected out of a system.
So you would have to
pull the, the, the controller
card out and always keep
it together. And people would
have labeled them to make
sure that you never let
these symbiotic pair be separated.
I guess it's kind of
like the record player that
only plays one record. Yeah.
Pretty much. That's a, that's
interesting. So, okay. So applying
this information about power consumption
and, and the, the relationship
of a spindle on a
disc or a platter, and
then kind of the macro
view of that in a,
in a data center, like
a Google or an Azure
or a, an Amazon could,
can they look at their
larger kind of cloud file
system and make decisions that
would affect the finances they
could see? Cause I assume
that all cloud file systems
run, you know, some custom
file system driver, Right? So
depending on what type of
service you're providing you, you've
got, you've got everybody doing,
doing different things to optimize
for the workloads that they're,
their customers run the majority
of the time. But, but
yes, I'm sure that there's
much work. That's gone into
really trying to optimize how
these controllers manage these disk
drives, obviously again, because performance
is gonna benefit from that.
And you're, you're pretty much
going to get energy savings
as a free lunch, along
with that. But couldn't, I
take a list of hard
drives like you've made or
a testing, a testing style
like this. And then when
making my purchasing decisions, maybe
as a cloud provider, I
could say, Oh, I'm going
to buy the Hitachi. I'm
going to buy the IBM,
because this, this is the
drive that is going to
give us the best performance,
energy mix in, in, in
this cloud world. Yeah. You
definitely could look at it
and make a decision such
as that. That's correct. The,
the one thing I'm sure
you want to watch out
for some of these vendors
are, are kind of giving
these drives. There are a
mind of their own, if
you will, and you don't
want to disk doing its
own thing when it's supposed
to be doing something else.
So you've got to make
sure that the disk allows
you to take full control
and possibly disable some, some
of its autonomous functionality for
the sake of the global.
Good. What kind of things
are you seeing discs built,
built in? I mean, back
in the day we had
an eight Meg cash and
that was pretty much it.
What, what, what did disks
have now? You've got, prefetching
you've got on this cash
is that, that have different
replacement policies. You've got sleep
timers where, where the disc
decides to go to a
certain lower power state when
it hasn't been accessed in,
in so long, you got
some discs that allow for
more expressive. And then this
is not necessarily the disk,
but controllers of dish drivers
that allow for more expressive
control of the disc, whether
that that's placement, whether that's
prefetching, whether that's how much
data to read and, and
certain bursts, things like that.
So you've got a lot
of different things that, that
the manufacturers are trying to
bells and whistles, I guess,
that the manufacturers are trying
to, to add on to,
to add increased differentiation, because
everybody's doing the same thing
of trying to pack more
gains. That's something that everybody's
trying to do. And, and
it's kinda like you're, you're
building, everybody's building the fastest
car, but how do I
make the seats more comfortable
that that's kinda the, the
situation where we're in now.
So for, for the average
developer though, I'm not going
to think about this kind
of stuff. I'll presume that
my cloud provider is handling
it for me. I think
that it's safe to say
that I don't know, I
haven't met many people that
say they consciously think about
how the described is consuming
energy. We are putting a
lot of thought though, on
small devices about how much
energy things produce. And we've
even had some discussions internally
at Microsoft where someone would
say, well, this feature uses
this much power. So, you
know, we're going to maybe
consider doing that feature differently,
especially when on, on, on
small devices. I I'm surprised
there's not more discussion about
that in the large scale,
I got that at either
end of the, of the
spectrum. There should be discussion
around energy. I agree 100%.
And it's, it's not until
you get into some of
these mobile scenarios in these
mobile contexts that you really
start to, to think about
how we're in energy as
the important resource that they
are. And I think from
a developer's point of view,
you think about an iPhone
or excuse me, an iOS
or an Android developer, where
power is in addition to
memory are very, very precious
resources. And these are things
that you have to think
about. So you're starting to
think about these things on
a much larger basis. Now
you participate on a number
of committees and workshops and
different, different conferences. So there
are people getting together, like,
you know, all the PhDs
that are interested in this
space and trying to solve
these big problems. And then
how am I as the
developer kind of many levels
downstream, just going to reap
the benefits as, as what
happens as cloud providers do
the right thing, or is
it hardware providers make better
hardware? Where do your works
and your workshops? I start
effecting me. Well, I, I,
and this is my personal
view. I think the best
result is going to come
once everybody can, can start
operating in concert because if,
as the cloud provider, if
you provide me API APIs,
that number one, I don't
understand, or number two, don't
have anything to do with
my particular workload and my
particular needs. Then it's not
quite clear to me how
I best utilize what you're
offering me. And as the
developer it's, it's, it's developer's
job to really understand what
the API is mean and
kind of the extent of
control that the API has
have over the hardware and
understand how that affects other
people. Because you've got to
understand that these clouds are
used by multiple individuals. So
there there's multi-tendency here and
everything has to effectively operate
at a local maximum, but
at the same time, not
causing anybody else else's requirements
or their, their, their workload
characteristics to be negatively affected
by a particular local, local
maximum. What if I had,
you know, like you, you
know, we have things like
smart where I can tell
the reliability of a drive.
Do we have the ability
to query drives for energy
usage and then make decisions
in a, in a, in
a dynamic sense as the
driver's doing its work. I
haven't seen any smart characteristics
that would allow that, that
that's such a dynamic or
feedback in our interaction. However,
this drives are smart compliant,
and you, you can, you
can query the district for
certain parameters and understand how,
how it's functioning, however, I'm
not aware of any discontrol
or so describers that, that
do that in, in, in
real time, kind of respond
to the district's power characteristics
for under a particular workload
and make those optimizations and
changes. I mean, I know
it's, most of my questions
are ignorant questions, but is
that, is that the wrong
way to think about it?
Is this something that is
a static thing where you
build a profile for a
drive ahead of time, and
then you say, all right,
now I understand the profile
of this drive its personality,
and then can simply feed
that personality type into a
device driver or an operating
system and say, all right,
well, this is a Samsung,
it has personality type B,
and this is a desk
desk star. It has personally
type a optimize appropriately. That's
kind of what my dissertation
work did. It allowed you
to create that model, and
you can hand off that
model to a dish driver
or somebody that wanted to
know what was going on
and say, here, this is
the characteristics based upon the
logical block address that you're
accessing, and you could get
an energy footprint. So that's
the approach that I took,
but I don't, I don't
see anything stopping one from
doing that in a more
real time feedback manner. The
only issue with that is
obviously the getting the work
done is probably priority number
one, and having that type
of interruption, so to speak
is going to significantly affect
your performance. However, if possibly
performance isn't the number one
priority in power or energy
are then maybe that is
an approach that will be
more amenable to someone. Okay.
So maybe that's just something
that isn't quite as dynamic
as I would think it
would be. Right. I think
that will be more of
a novelty than something somebody
is trying to put into
production because nobody's going to
be able to tolerate those
types of delays. So as,
as spinning disks or as
we call them lovingly at
work, spinning, rushed, starts moving
towards solid state. Does that,
you know, for lack of
a better word, kind of
obsolete your, your research, were
you doing work just as
we were switching to SSDs
or does it still have
a valid purpose? I think
there's definitely still validity and
the work that I've done,
because again, it's, it's really
hard to match the capacities
that we need with SSD,
but at the same time
too, I don't think mechanical
distract are going to completely
fall off the face of
the earth because they may
simply replace tape as more
kind of deeper archive responsibilities.
So there, there still may
be reason to, to be
cognizant of, of the power
and energy of mechanical disk,
but it may be from
a different perspective. I would,
I would imagine, but definitely
solid state disk drives as
soon as we can get
the dollar per gigabyte at
a place that, that people
are able to more easily
consume because the IOPS per
per dollar are, are killing
mechanical disk drive. So, so
everybody wants SSPs in terms
of the I ops and
I ops means IO operations
per second, SSDs will definitely
replace mechanical disk drives. And
then you've got other things
to storage, class memories and
those of those new up
and coming research prototypes that
probably will be on the
market here in the next
five to 10 years out.
I would imagine in, and
then in more consumer grade,
The idea that that SSDs,
you know, overall are going
to take over everything. It's
just not maybe on the
desktop or maybe in the
laptop, but in the data
center, you're just not going
to get that price storage
ratio that you're going to
get that not anytime soon,
at least, Well, I don't
see it happening, but unless
you can make the justification
for paying the price for
SSDs as the price exists.
Now, I don't think you'll
see this, this big overhaul
of the data center, because
again, there's, there's a lot
of capacity out there and
to match that capacity need
with SSD is going to
be tremendously expensive. However, there
are some shops that, that
I have heard about that
are biting the bullet and
replacing as much as they
can with SSD, just for
the sake of the performance
benefit and these SSDs, depending
what type of grade that
you get and get very
expensive. But Eric, but arguably
though, I mean, aren't you
talking about going from numbers
like 500 to a thousand
IOPS up into hundreds of
thousands of IOPS, just by
just, just by quote unquote,
just by jumping from spinning
rust over to an SSD.
I mean, those numbers are,
you know, orders of magnitude.
Yeah. So, so at the
top end of your SSD,
yeah, you're definitely talking hundreds
of thousands of, of IOPS.
And for the most part,
I think some of the
higher end disks are, are
getting maybe creeping into the
thousands of IOPS per second,
but, but you're right, that
that is orders of magnitude
and, and that's performance that
you see, and that's not
hidden performance that performance that
you see, and, and as,
as a customer, you will
be very pleased with that.
Yeah. I was at a,
a conference in Europe and
there was a, I forgot
the gentleman's name, but he's
in charge of cloud computing
for, for Netflix. And he
was talking about putting their,
their system over on the
SSDs and moving from spinning
rushed SSDs. And they were
doing it a little bit
at a time just to
test things out. And I
think the numbers he were
giving were fairly general, but
he said something like, you
know, I can spend a
dollar here for a regular
magnetic disk or $3 for
SSD. And I think he,
he uses Amazon, but I'm
going to go from a
thousand IOPS to, you know,
3000 or 5,000 or 10,000.
He said, the numbers just
simply are so compelling that
he wants to move entirely
over. It's going to make
things more expensive, but the
IOPS, he just could not
express how much better that
made their databases. And I
thought one of the interesting
things that was said by
an audience member was he
started kind of going off
on all these details about
SSDs and reliability and trim
and all the things that
he felt that the head
of cloud computing at Netflix
needed to worry about. And
after kind of the audience
member gave his big, long
diatribe on why this was
fullest way for the gentlemen
to think the speaker from
Netflix said, I don't care.
I'm just renting them. And
it just hit me like
a ton of bricks. It
was just like, yeah, it's
just not his problem. Exactly.
And that, that's the beauty
of cloud that as the
lease leaser of the cloud
infrastructure have to worry about
a lot of those things.
As long as you can
make sure you don't lose
valuable data that you can't
regain, then the net, that's
not your issue. And I
agree that that that's absolutely
true, Right? He felt that
the power benefits, the, you
know, the, the concern was
about reliability, but his, his
answer to the reliability question
was if the cloud provider
manages their reliability infrastructure appropriately,
he said, half the drives
could fail and that's their
problem and their issue. And
they'll deal with it by
potentially changing pricing. Exactly. Yeah.
Interesting. Well, thanks so much
for chatting with me today.
No, Scott I've really enjoyed
it. Thank you so much
for having me. This has
been Anthony Highlet from IBM
research, and this is another
episode of Hansel minutes. We'll
see you again next week.
.